DISCLAIMER:
For this purpose will be instructing you through the launching guide for the HTTPS method and cloning
the repository to Visual Studio Code as the primary IDE.
Cloning Repository:
Click the green “Code” button at the top of the GitHub page and select the method of cloning you’d like
to use

Once you copy the link, open Visual Studio Code to a new window and select “Clone Git Repository”

Select “Github” when prompted and then paste the copied link you got in the first step:

Once you hit Enter, it’ll ask you where you’d like to save the repository. Here, I created a new folder
where it can be saved:

Once you select the repository destination you’re ready to start modifying the code to run.

Database Setup:
Under the application properties file of the backend the command hibernate.ddl.auto should be
changed accordingly to the necessities if it is the first time that the program is run the command should
be set to create. This will automatically create the necessary tables with all its mapings.

Backend Setup:
Make sure you’ve set up the database before continuing forward.
First, you’ll want to go to the”application.properties” file to modify some information that is essential for
the backend to properly function.
You’ll want to change the three fields with comments below them: “url”, “username”, and “password”
For “url”, you just have to change “capstone” to the name you gave the database. If you didn’t change
the name or named it the same don’t worry about it.the “3306” might have to be changed if you
changed it while creating the database, if not then again don’t worry about it.
“Username”, here put the username you set to access the database, if you made it the same then don’t
worry about it.

“Password”, here put the password you set to access the database.:

Next, you’ll need to create a new Terminal session. You can do so by pressing this icon at the top:

You’l want to then cd into the backend project using the command below:
“cd .\Backend\SpringApp\”

--This is important, if you don’t “cd” into the backend then the following steps won’t work properly-Once you’ve confirmed you “cd” correctly, you can run the code below to run the Backend:
“mvn spring-boot:run”

You’ll know it's running correctly if this is the message you get after its done:

Front-end Setup:
Do not close this terminal session, but instead create a new one using the plus sign on the right of the
window:

Once you have started a new session, cd into the Frontend using the command below:
“cd .\Front-end\sakai-ng-master\”

From here, confirm you’ve “cd” correctly then install npm using the command below:

“npm install”

Once npm has been installed correctly, you can run the command below to run the Front-end:
“ng serve”

You’ll know its running correctly if you get a “localhost” link.

Once you get it, you can either “CTRL + Click” to open up your primary browser to view the site, or copy
and paste the link into your preferred browser.

